He's been a professor for a long time at a great school.	No	Yes
There's no way they would give it up.	No	Yes
They're able to charge women more for the same exact procedure a man gets.	Yes	Yes
As far as a say is concerned, the people already had their say.	No	Yes
I am the Democratic Party right now.	No	Yes
Well, there's seven million people that contracted COVID.	Yes	Yes
So don't tell me about this.	No	Yes
I'm happy to talk about this.	No	Yes
You would have been much later, Joe, much later.	No	Yes
And so the election is all-	No	Yes
Why is it on the ballot?	No	Yes
And we will protect people.	No	Yes
I'll give you an example.	No	Yes
Take a look at all of the drugs that what we're doing.	No	Yes
On Super Tuesday, you got very lucky.	No	Yes
And tonight I'm going to make sure.	No	Yes
Because here's the deal, here's the deal.	No	Yes
The fact is that everything he's saying so far is simply a lie.	Yes	Yes
The wrong guy, the wrong night, at the wrong time.	No	Yes
You agreed with Bernie Sanders on a plan that you absolutely agreed to and under that plan [crosstalk], they call it socialized medicine.	Yes	Yes
He has never offered a plan.	Yes	Yes
We took away the individual mandate.	Yes	Yes
We guaranteed pre-existing conditions, but took away the individual mandate.	Yes	Yes
If I run it badly, they'll probably blame him, but they'll blame me.	No	Yes
But more importantly, I want to help people.	No	Yes
So we do want to get rid of it.	No	Yes
And the fact is this man doesn't know what he's talking about.	No	Yes
Whatever position I take on that, that'll become the issue.	No	Yes
The issue is the American people should speak.	No	Yes
You want to put a lot of new Supreme Court Justices.	No	Yes
Will you shut up, man?	No	Yes
Listen, who is on your list, Joe?	No	Yes
We, in fact, have 4% of the world's population, 20% of the deaths.	Yes	Yes
40,000 people a day are contracting COVID.	Yes	Yes
Well, it is what it is because you are who you are.	No	Yes
In addition to that, what did he do?	No	Yes
And what did he do then?	No	Yes
I laid out back in March, exactly what we should be doing.	No	Yes
And I laid out again in July, what we should be doing.	No	Yes
We should be providing all the protective gear possible.	No	Yes
Many of your Democrat Governors said, \President Trump did a phenomenal job.\""	Yes	Yes
Far fewer people are dying.	Yes	Yes
We've done a great job.	No	Yes
But I'll tell you, Joe, you could never have done the job that we did.	No	Yes
How many of you got up this morning and had an empty chair at the kitchen table because someone died of COVID?	No	Yes
How many of you are in a situation where you lost your mom or dad and you couldn't even speak to them, you had a nurse holding a phone up so you could in fact say goodbye?	No	Yes
It could also be after that.	No	Yes
No more than the question you just asked him.	No	Yes
They're the people... And by the way-	No	Yes
Did you use the word smart?	No	Yes
I look forward to talking about it.	No	Yes
Tell that to Nancy Pelosi.	No	Yes
He sits in his golf course.	No	Yes
He wants to shut down the country.	Yes	Yes
More people will be hurt by continuing.	No	Yes
I got to respond to that.	No	Yes
No, I think masks are okay.	No	Yes
Dr. Fauci said the opposite.	Yes	Yes
He's been totally irresponsible the way in which he has handled the social distancing and people wearing masks, basically encouraged them not to.	Yes	Yes
If you could get the crowds, you would have done the same thing.	No	Yes
One person is too much.	No	Yes
And you look at what's going on with divorce, look at what's going on with alcoholism and drugs.	No	Yes
This guy paid a total of $750 in taxes.	Yes	Yes
The fact is that he has in fact, worked on this in a way that he's going to be the first president of the United States to leave office, having fewer jobs in his administration than when he became president.	Yes	Yes
Because it costs a lot of money to open them safely.	Yes	Yes
Excuse me, he made a statement.	No	Yes
They want to get back to their lives.	No	Yes
I paid millions of dollars in taxes, millions of dollars of income tax.	Yes	Yes
I paid $38 million one year, I paid $27 million one year.	Yes	Yes
Chris, let me just say something, that it was the tax laws.	No	Yes
I don't want to pay tax.	No	Yes
And I'm going to eliminate those tax cuts.	No	Yes
And make sure that we invest in the people who in fact need the help.	No	Yes
But why didn't you do it over the last 25 years?	No	Yes
We've done things that you never even thought of doing.	No	Yes
And under my proposal, we're going to make sure that every penny of that has to be made by a company-	No	Yes
By the way, I'm going to eliminate a significant number of the taxes.	No	Yes
I'm going to make the corporate tax 28%.	No	Yes
They had the slowest economic recovery since 1929.	Yes	Yes
If you got in, if you ever became president with your ideas, you want to terminate my taxes.	No	Yes
And plenty of companies that are already here, they'll leave for other places.	Yes	Yes
Manufacturing went in a hole-	Yes	Yes
I brought back 700,000 jobs.	Yes	Yes
We have a higher deficit with China now than we did before.	Yes	Yes
What did he do to deserve it?	No	Yes
Some people don't do a good job.	No	Yes
We want to talk about families and ethics.	No	Yes
He came out of his bunker, had the military use tear gas on them so he could walk across to a church and hold up a Bible.	Yes	Yes
And then what happened after that?	No	Yes
The general who was with him said All he ever wants to do is divide people not unite people at all.	Yes	Yes
And why aren't you saying those words, Joe?	No	Yes
There's systemic injustice in this country, in education and work and in law enforcement and the way in which it's enforced.	Yes	Yes
They have to be held accountable.	No	Yes
When they run through the middle of the town-	No	Yes
If you were a certain person, you had no status in life.	No	Yes
And if you look at the people, we would pay people hundreds of thousands of dollars to teach very bad ideas and frankly, very sick ideas.	No	Yes
We have to go back to the core values of this country.	No	Yes
And I'm not going to allow that to happen.	No	Yes
People have to be made aware of what other people feel like, uh, what insults them, what is demeaning to them.	No	Yes
It's important that people know.	No	Yes
It's a little bit like how this guy and, and his friends look down on so many people.	No	Yes
There's nothing we cannot do, if we do it together.	No	Yes
Look what happened in Baltimore.	No	Yes
The places we had trouble were Democratic-run cities...	Yes	Yes
I think it's a party issue.	No	Yes
The numbers are going up a 100, 150, 200 percent, uh, crime, it is crazy what's going on ...	Yes	Yes
I was raised in the suburbs.	No	Yes
That's not what it ...	No	Yes
And so here, here's the point.	No	Yes
Instead of going in and talking to people and saying, \Let's get everybody together."	No	Yes
You mean, I have to answer his stuff?	No	Yes
I'll send in the National Guard, it would be over.	No	Yes
Proud Boys, stand back and stand by.	No	Yes
And we now got a 91% approval rating at the VA, our vets.	Yes	Yes
We take care of our vets.	No	Yes
Because President Obama and him left me 128 judges to fill.	Yes	Yes
You can't be a good Vice President but I want to thank you because it gives us almost, it'll probably be above that number.	No	Yes
With regard to being weaker, the fact is that I've gone head to head with Putin and made it clear to him we're not going to take any of his stuff.	Yes	Yes
He still refuses to even say anything to Putin about the bounty on the heads of American soldiers.	Yes	Yes
When we were in office there were 15% less violence in America than there is today.	Yes	Yes
He spent a year there.	No	Yes
Are you talking Hunter, are you talking about Hunter.	No	Yes
My son... like a lot of people.	No	Yes
Why did he get it?	No	Yes
If you look at the Paris Accord, it was a disaster from our standpoint.	No	Yes
But I also think we have to do better management of our forests.	No	Yes
I was with the head of a major country, it's a forest city.	No	Yes
I spoke with the Governor about it.	No	Yes
Now, so, and by the way, we're going to see how that turns out.	No	Yes
And I'm okay with electric cars too.	No	Yes
Making sure that we can do that, we're going to put 500,000 charging stations and all of the highways that we're going to be building in the future.	No	Yes
And the first thing I will do, I will rejoin the Paris Accord.	No	Yes
Brazil, the rainforests of Brazil are being torn down, are being ripped down.	Yes	Yes
That is not, that is not...	No	Yes
That is simply not the case...	No	Yes
Yeah, you did say that.	Yes	Yes
So why didn't he do it for 47 years?	Yes	Yes
The Green New Deal is a hundred trillion dollars...	Yes	Yes
The Green New Deal is not my plan...	Yes	Yes
If you knew anything about...	No	Yes
He made a statement about the military.	No	Yes
They should go to iwillvote.com.	No	Yes
And this is all about trying to dissuade people from voting because he's trying to conf--to scare people into thinking that it's not going to be legitimate.	Yes	Yes
If you're able to vote in person, vote in person.	No	Yes
Just make sure you understand, you have it in your control to determine what this country is gonna look like the next four years.	No	Yes
Is it going to change, or are you going to get four more years of these lies?	No	Yes
From the day I came down the escalator with our first lady, they were a disaster.	No	Yes
Take a look at what happened in New Jersey.	No	Yes
You do a solicited ballot, and that's okay...	No	Yes
... like they used to in the old...	No	Yes
Did you see what's going on?	No	Yes
When you file-when you get a ballot and you fill it out, you're supposed to have an affidavit.	No	Yes
... sent in and swamping the system...	No	Yes
In Philadelphia, they went in to watch.	No	Yes
I'll tell you what it means...	No	Yes
It means you have a fraudulent election.	Yes	Yes
Some of these ballots in some states can't even be opened until election day.	Yes	Yes
And by the way, our military--they've been voting by ballots for since the end of the Civil War, in effect.	Yes	Yes
Take a look at Carolyn Maloney's race...	No	Yes
The fact is, I will accept it, and he will too.	No	Yes
If it's not me, I'll support the outcome.	No	Yes
You see the spikes in Europe and many other places right now.	Yes	Yes
If you notice, the mortality rate is down, 85%.	Yes	Yes
The excess mortality rate is way down, and much lower than almost any other country.	Yes	Yes
I can tell you from personal experience that I was in the hospital, I had it.	No	Yes
Whether it's four months or a lifetime, nobody's been able to say that, but I'm immune.	No	Yes
If you hear nothing else I say tonight, hear this.	No	Yes
Anyone who's responsible for not taking control - in fact, not saying, I take no responsibility, initially - anyone who is responsible for that many deaths should not remain as President of the United States of America.	No	Yes
We're in a situation where there are thousands of deaths a day, a thousand deaths a day.	Yes	Yes
Compared to what's going on in Europe, as the New England Medical Journal said, they're starting from a very low rate.	Yes	Yes
And we're in a circumstance where the President, thus far, still has no plan.	Yes	Yes
I would make sure we move in the direction of rapid testing, investing in rapid testing.	No	Yes
No, it's not a guarantee but it will be by the end of the year, but I think it has a good chance.	No	Yes
Make sure it's totally transparent.	No	Yes
I don't think we're going to have a dark winter at all.	No	Yes
When I closed and banned China from coming in heavily infected, and then ultimately Europe, but China was in January - months later he was saying I was xenophobic, I did it too soon.	Yes	Yes
Look, his own person who ran that for him who, as you know was his chief of staff, said 'It was catastrophic, it was horrible, we didn't know what we were doing.'	Yes	Yes
And he did it late, after 40 countries had already done that.	Yes	Yes
I'd love to put myself in the basement or in a beautiful room in the White House and go away for a year and a half until it disappears.	No	Yes
Can I respond to that?	No	Yes
What should they do about the danger?	No	Yes
They kept it from going into the rest of China, for the most part, but they didn't keep it from coming out to the world including Europe and ourselves.	Yes	Yes
The fact is, that when we knew it was coming, when it hit - what happened?	No	Yes
Well, I think we have to respond, if I might.	No	Yes
And he supports all these people.	Yes	Yes
Young people, I guess it's their immune system.	No	Yes
There's depression, alcohol, drugs at a level that nobody's ever seen before.	Yes	Yes
We're gonna be able to walk and chew gum at the same time.	No	Yes
I mean, you're going to sit there in a cubicle wrapped around with plastic?	No	Yes
For so many years, I loved it.	No	Yes
The money's already been passed to do that.	Yes	Yes
Kristen, New York has lost more than 40,000 people.	Yes	Yes
We can't let that happen, Joe, you can't let that happen.	No	Yes
We have to open up and we understand the disease, we have to protect our seniors, we have to protect our elderly, we have to protect, especially, our seniors with heart problems and diabetes problems, and we will protect them.	No	Yes
But, guess what, in the meantime, we find out in the New York Times the other day that in fact, his folks went to Wall Street and said, 'this is a really dangerous thing,' and a memo out of that meeting - not from his administration, but from some of the brokers - said, 'sell short, because we gotta get moving.	Yes	Yes
But I don't want to do that because it puts me in a bad position.	No	Yes
You shouldn't be bringing up Wall Street.	No	Yes
In fact, we beat Hillary Clinton with a tiny fraction of the money that she was able to get.	Yes	Yes
Don't tell me about Wall Street.	No	Yes
They will pay a price.	No	Yes
They will pay a price if I'm elected.	No	Yes
We are in a situation where we have foreign countries trying to interfere in the outcome of our election.	Yes	Yes
He's being fed information that is Russian, that is not true.	Yes	Yes
Joe got three and a half million dollars from Russia.	Yes	Yes
You got three and a half million dollars.	Yes	Yes
Your family got three and a half million dollars and you know someday, you're gonna have to explain - why did you get three and a half?	Yes	Yes
I never got any money from Russia.	Yes	Yes
I sold - while he was selling pillows and sheets - I sold tank busters to Ukraine.	Yes	Yes
And I'll tell you, they were so bad.	No	Yes
They took over the, the submarine port.	Yes	Yes
They were paying you a lot of money and they probably still are, but now, with what came out today, it's even worse.	Yes	Yes
We learn that this President paid 50 times the tax in China, has a secret bank account with China, does business in China, and in fact, is talking about me taking money?	Yes	Yes
I have not taken a single penny from any country whatsoever, ever, number one.	Yes	Yes
The foreign countries are paying you a lot.	Yes	Yes
I want to do it, and it will show how successful, how great this company is.	No	Yes
So, I already prepaid it.	Yes	Yes
Number two, I don't make money from China, you do.	Yes	Yes
I don't know, maybe you're not.	No	Yes
Your son said we have to give 10% to the big man.	Yes	Yes
I get treated worse than the Tea Party got treated.	No	Yes
Come on, come on, folks.	No	Yes
I was put through a phony witch hunt for three years.	Yes	Yes
His son didn't have a job for a long time, was sadly no longer in the military service, I won't get into that.	No	Yes
Everybody investigated that, no one said anything he did was wrong in Ukraine.	Yes	Yes
Excuse me, and then unlike him, where he's Vice President, and he does business, I then decided to run for president after that.	No	Yes
What I'd make China do is play by the international rules, not like he has done.	No	Yes
We need to be having the rest of our friends with us, saying to China, these are the rules.	No	Yes
His son walked out with a billion and a half dollars from China -	Yes	Yes
First of all, China is paying.	Yes	Yes
You're sitting at the kitchen table this morning deciding, well, we can't get new tires, they're bald, because we have to wait another month or so.	No	Yes
Let's get off the subject of China, let's talk around sitting around the table.	No	Yes
So, when I met with Barack Obama, we sat in the White House, right at the beginning had a great conversation, was supposed to be 15 minutes and it was well over an hour.	No	Yes
On the condition that he would agree that he would be drawing down his nuclear capacity to get -- the Korean Peninsula should be a nuclear free zone.	No	Yes
Remember the first two or three months.	No	Yes
Through the legislature, I terminated the individual mandate.	Yes	Yes
The individual mandate -- where you have to pay a fortune for the privilege of not having to pay for bad health insurance.	Yes	Yes
I terminated it; it's gone.	Yes	Yes
I could have gone the other route and made everybody very unhappy.	No	Yes
I don't know that it's going to work.	No	Yes
What I would like to do is a much better health care, much better.	No	Yes
We'll always protect people with pre-existing - so I'd like to terminate Obamacare, come up with a brand new beautiful health care.	No	Yes
And I think we're going to win the House, okay?	No	Yes
You'll see, but I think we're gonna win the House.	No	Yes
We have 180 million people out there that have great private health care, far more than we're talking about with Obamacare.	Yes	Yes
It's gotten endorsed by all the major labor unions as well as, as well as a whole range of other people who in fact, are concerned in the medical field.	Yes	Yes
And this is going to give some people an opportunity, an opportunity to have health care for their children, how many of you home are worried and rolling around in bed at night wondering what in God's name are you going to do if you get sick?	No	Yes
Excuse me, he was there for 47 years - he didn't do it.	Yes	Yes
And they're going to have lower premiums, you can buy into the better plans, the cheaper plans, lower your premiums, deal with unexpected billing, and have your drug prices drop significantly.	No	Yes
And this whole country will come down.	No	Yes
And the idea that we're in a situation and are going to destroy Medicare - this is the guy that the actuary of Medicare said, 'If in fact' - and, social security - 'If, in fact, he continues to withhold his plan to withhold the tax on Social Security, Social Security will be bankrupt by 2023, with no way to make up for it.	Yes	Yes
Go back and look at the records.	No	Yes
What happens to the ordinary people out there?	No	Yes
And he doesn't come from Scranton.	No	Yes
And it's gone through, including the Democrats, in all fairness.	Yes	Yes
And look at what's happening.	No	Yes
What's the matter with these guys.	No	Yes
We were going to take care of everything for them.	No	Yes
If I get elected, I'm not gonna - I'm running as a proud Democrat, but I'm gonna be an American president.	No	Yes
What I see is American, United States.	No	Yes
They allowed the federal government to deficit spend to compensate for the United States of America.	Yes	Yes
I do, because I think one of the things we're gonna have to do is we're gonna have to bail them out, too.	No	Yes
They passed a package that allows us to be able to call PPP, money's supposed to go to help them do everything from organize how they could deal with their businesses being open safely.	Yes	Yes
I think it should be a state option.	No	Yes
We have to help, it's very important.	No	Yes
And then they had a picture in a certain newspaper.	No	Yes
But a lot of these kids come out without the parents, they come over through cartels and through coyotes and through gangs.	Yes	Yes
Who built the cages, Joe?	No	Yes
And now they cannot find over 500 sets of those parents and those kids are alone.	Yes	Yes
I'd love you to ask that, who built the cages?	No	Yes
And the fact is, I've made it very clear, within 100 days, I'm going to send to the United States Congress a pathway to citizenship for over 11 million undocumented people.	No	Yes
The catch and release, you know what he's talking about there?	No	Yes
That's never happened before in America.	Yes	Yes
They're sitting in squalor on the other side of the river.	No	Yes
Catch and release is a disaster.	No	Yes
She has a graduate degree from the University of Pennsylvania in social work.	No	Yes
All the things we can do.	No	Yes
Ten-year, long term funding, and I gave them more money than they asked for, because I said, 'I think you need more'.	Yes	Yes
The fact of the matter is, in 2000 though, after the crime bill had been in the law for a while, this is the guy who said, 'The problem with the crime bill, there's not enough people in jail.	Yes	Yes
And secondly, we're in a situation here where we - the federal prison system was reduced by 38,000 people under our administration.	Yes	Yes
No one should be going to jail because they have a drug problem.	No	Yes
That's exactly what - That's exactly what--	No	Yes
I thought it was a terrible thing.	No	Yes
I don't, I don't know what to say.	No	Yes
I got criminal justice reform done, and prison reform, and opportunity zones.	Yes	Yes
I don't know what to say.	No	Yes
He's banned Muslims because they're Muslims.	Yes	Yes
I didn't say 'I'm Abraham Lincoln'.	No	Yes
One of the things is that in the '80s, we passed 100%, all 100 senators voted for it, a bill on drugs and how to deal with drugs.	Yes	Yes
They should be going into treatment across the board.	No	Yes
That's what we should be spending money on.	No	Yes
You didn't get anything done.	No	Yes
38,000 prisoners were released from federal prison.	Yes	Yes
Why didn't you do it?	No	Yes
You put tens of thousands of mostly Black young men in prison.	Yes	Yes
You know why, Joe, because you're all talk and no action.	No	Yes
Sometimes you gotta talk 'em into it.	No	Yes
We have the best, lowest number in carbon emissions, which is a big standard that I noticed Obama goes with all the time.	Yes	Yes
I will not sacrifice tens of millions of jobs, thousands and thousands of companies because of the Paris Accord.	No	Yes
We have a moral obligation to deal with it.	No	Yes
We're going to be in a position where we're going to see to it that we're going to take 4 million existing billion, buildings and 2 million existing homes and retrofit them so they don't leak as much energy, saving hundreds of millions of barrels of oil in the process and creating significant number of jobs.	No	Yes
They came out and said very strongly, '$6,500 will be taken away from families under his plan', that his plan is an economic disaster.	Yes	Yes
Look, their real plan costs $100 trillion.	Yes	Yes
He thinks wind causes cancer, windmills.	Yes	Yes
We are energy independent for the first time.	Yes	Yes
Find me a scientist that says that.	No	Yes
But if you want to kill the economy, get rid of your oil industry.	No	Yes
You want -- and what about fracking?	No	Yes
I have never said I oppose fracking.	Yes	Yes
If you look at the kind of numbers that we produce for Hispanic, or Black, or Asian, it's nine times greater, the percentage gain than it was under - in three years - than it was under eight years of the two of them, to put it nicely.	Yes	Yes
We saved our oil industry and now it's very vibrant and everybody has very inexpensive gasoline.	Yes	Yes
And I'd stop giving to the oil industry - I'd stop giving them federal subsidies.	No	Yes
You won't give federal subsidies to the gas and, excuse me, to solar and wind.	No	Yes
We have to make our country totally successful, as it was prior to the plague coming in from China.	No	Yes
We had the best Black unemployment numbers in the history of our country, Hispanic, women, Asian, people with diplomas, with no diplomas, MIT graduates, number one in the class - everybody had the best numbers.	Yes	Yes
Success is going to bring us together.	No	Yes
Your 401K's will go to hell and it'll be a very, very sad day for this country.	No	Yes
We're going to choose to move forward because we have enormous opportunities, enormous opportunities to make things better.	No	Yes
We can grow this economy.	No	Yes
